README.md, before:

# nft-authorise
Authentication library to confirm public-key metadata associated with an NFT via a signing challenge. For the NFT mock contract which this library is based on,

The aim with this library is to be a modular, portable SDK for NFT authentication that can facilitate a handshake protocol whereby the receiver knows for certain that the send is the wallet owner of an NFT from the specified contract. This library is built to keep track of NFTs as an authentication mechanism, it is developed to provide a deterministic callback function for peers joining a CometBFT-based network.

The verify function works with the following parameters: Contract Address (NFT Token Mint), Claimed Wallet Address (containing NFT). And possibly a public key or CometBFT meta-data attached the NFT.

The primary security concern with this authentication library is that you trust the Ethereum RPC source implicitly, so it is recommended to run an ethereum node (lite or full is fine) on the local machine to use for these requests. 

To-Do:
* Change string values in the Redeem Event struct to hex / binary to save space in memory and storage.
* Ensure compatibility with CometBFT playback (historical redeems that are no longer valid should still be replayable).
* Error handling and program resilience (for example, check what happens if we hit the rate limit).
* Unlimited RPC requests, need to run an ethereum full node for developing this.

## Validator Pass in the Openmesh Network
User needs to: 

1. Generate / read their CometBFT address from Xnode Studio.

2. Redeem NFT with CometBFT address, costs ETH gas (provide UI in studio).

All Validators are regularly tracking ETH RPC for redeem events associated with the Validator Pass contract. This tracker keeps a list of valid Comet BFT address' per tokenId / redeem event.

#### Event sourcing
The RPC source is configurable when creating the tracker object by passing the URL as a parameter. It must be either Ethereum or Polygon RPC to be compatible, see an example in Openmesh Core (at the time of writing this in feat/nft-tracker branch).

Subscribe to the redeem event. An RPC subscription is maintained by all nodes for the purpose of verifying a transaction / determining voting power in the permissioned network.

getLogs is required by a block proposer or called over a long period to check for any missed redeem events.


#### Removing peers (Future)

Voting power is set to 0 if a new redeem event for the same tokenId.

When reading an event, if tokenId is already in the list then remove the original CBFT address.

https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0x8d64ab58a17da7d8788367549c513386f09a0a70#writeContract

Commit message:

Abstracted the ethereum redeem event to a struct to reduce repeating code and improve compatibility.

README.md, after:

# nft-authorise
Authentication library to find and record wallet address metadata associated with an NFT, to authorise validator's addresses when they request to join a permissioned network.

The aim with this library is to provide a deterministic callback function for peers joining a CometBFT-based network. It does this by 'tracking' a contract address for an event signature, which in the test-case is a *Redeemed* event on the initial *Mock Validator Pass* contract.

The verify function is a callback that checks the tracker's list of validator redeem events for a tokenId and confirms that the input Validator Address matches the latest redeem event for that token.

## Optimisations
Currently, the tracker keeps all redeem events an array in memory. This serves fine with our scope 1-10K validators, however if the network scales further it could be ideal to use a keystore to save resources. 

## Security Improvements
The primary security concern with this authentication library is that you trust the Ethereum RPC source implicitly, so it is recommended to run an ethereum node (lite or full is fine) on the local machine to use for these requests. 


To-Do:
* Ensure compatibility with CometBFT playback - historical redeems that are no longer valid should still be replayable.
* Unlimited RPC request configuration option
    * Develop and test using a Lite and Full node, in case the user has a locally hosted RPC source.
* Removing validators when there is a new redeem event to a different address.

## Use-case: Validator Passes in the Openmesh Network
The user journey for authenticating a validator node is simplified to the following steps:

1. Initialise a validator node and record it's address.

2. Redeem a Validator Pass with the node's CometBFT address.

In order to replay or verify blocks in Openmesh Core, nodes are regularly tracking RPC for redeem events associated with the Validator Pass contract. 

### Event sourcing
The RPC source is configurable when creating the tracker object by passing the URL as a parameter. Ethereum or Polygon RPC is expected, see main.go for an example program. However, any implementation is intended to be through importing the package rather than running this as a program.

The eth_getLogs rpc call is made repeatedly to search through blocks of any range with the assumption (based on Ankr public limit) that the RPC will only allow a search of 4 blocks at a time. 

### Removing peers

Voting power is set to 0 if a new redeem event for the same tokenId.

When reading an event, if tokenId is already in the list then remove the original CBFT address.

https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0x8d64ab58a17da7d8788367549c513386f09a0a70#writeContract
